# Sort Manager
An application that manages different type of sorting algorithms.

# Project Overview
Sort Manager implements 6 different type of sort algorithms, which all sort an array of integers into ascending order.

These algorithms, and other features of the application, are tested against various test cases to ensure they are reliable and working.

### Sorting Algorithms
The algorithms included are:
* Binary Tree Sorter  - Creates a binary tree and recursively searches through it to sort the given array.
* Bubble Sorter       - Sorts the given array by comparing each element to the next and swapping them until every element is in order.
* Insertion Sorter    - Places unsorted elements at the correct place in the sorted array.
* Merge Sorter        - Splits the array in half until each subarray is one element, then recursively merges each subarray back into one in the correct order.
* Quick Sorter        - Partitions the array around a chosen pivot point, and then puts all elements lower than the pivot point before it, and all elements larger after it. Another 
                        pivot is chosen and the process repeats until the array is sorted.
* Selection Sorter    - Sorts by selecting the smallest element in the unsorted array and putting it at the end of the sorted array. This is repeated until the array is sorted.

### Application Walkthrough
Sort Manager includes a console UI. Upon launching the application, the user is prompted to enter commands to control it.
The user can choose the sorting algorithm to be used, and the size of the array to sort.
After inputting these parameters, a random array of the size specified is generated by the application.
The chosen sorting algorithm then sorts the array.
The unsorted and sorted arrays are then displayed, along with the time taken to sort in nanoseconds.

### Speed Test
By running the speed test suite, a side by side comparison of all sorting algorithm speeds are displayed.
This tests each algorithm on the same array of 10,000 integers to ensure the test is as fair as possible.

# How to run
1. Open GIT bash and navigate to your chosen file location to store the project files in.
2. Navigate to the main page of the Sort Manager repository.
3. Click 'Code', then copy the URL that appears.
4. In GIT bash, type `git clone "<URL HERE>"`, pasting the URL you just copied where specified.
5. Open the SortManager file with your IDE of choice.
6. Compile and run the application:
    * Main application: Compile and run App.main(), which is found at `SortManager/src/main/java/com/sparta/jh/sortManager/main/App.java`.
    * Speed test suite: Compile and run SorterSpeedTest.main(), which is found at `SortManager/src/test/java/com/sparta/jh/sortManager/SorterSpeedTest.java`.
